# 1 System requirements {#sys}

## 1.1 Prioritize project independence to hardware

The project should be designed to be as decoupled from specific hardware as reasonable.

The idea is that this property should be high on priority list, but not at cost of rapid decrease in other wanted properties - simplicity, debuggability, or performance.

### 1.1.1 Decomposition

The project should be clearly divided into following parts:

 - Host tools
 - Firmware
   - Generic components (ie: message processing)
   - Platform specifics (ie: drivers)
   - Board specifics (ie: setup of drivers)

Do not allow unnecessary spilling of dependencies/implementation details between decomposed parts.

### 1.1.2 Code shall not be dependent on hardware specifics unless necessary

Avoid writing code that is tied to the way target hardware works.
The main motivation is 1.2) - the goal is to be able to run as much of the code on host devices as possible. This way we can write tests on host device.

This does not have to be done if cost in development of properly abstracted code would outweigh the price of overhead caused by the need to test on specific hardware.

## 1.2 Focus on testing

We should maximize the amount of testing (and diversity of use cases) to create as big test coverage as reasonable.

We should avoid blindly adding tests that does not bring in value, as those just cost resources.

Value of tests:
  - Confirmation that formal requirement were satisfied
  - Increase in coverage of tested unit
  - Support for refactoring or updates to the code

## 1.2.1 Test on host what can be tested on host

We should prioritize testing capabilities on host device, instead on the target hardware itself.
For example: error handling for incorrect message input can be fully tested on host device and should be done so.

## 1.2.3 Use testing on target hardware

Write unit tests for capabilities that can't be tested on host hardware. The fact that something can't be tested on host should not be an excuse for untested capabilities.
