# 2 System control requirements {#ctl}

## 2.1 Position control mode

System shall support position control mode.
In this mode, the goal is to achieve specified position on controlled axis.

Position is measured with position sensor, it's exact nature is not defined by this requirement.

Goal position is specified in *radians*. The system should handle any position within configured software limits and native limits given by the hardware construction of the system.

Precision is subject to the nature of position sensor, and is not handled by this requirement.

## 2.2 Current control mode

System shall support current control mode.
In this mode, the goal is to achieve specified current flowing to connected motor.

Current is measured with current sensor, it's exact nature is not defined by this requirement.

Goal current is specified in *amperes*. The system should handle current within configured software limits and native limits given by the hardware construction of the system.

## 2.3 Velocity control mode

System shall support velocity control mode.
In this mode, the goal is to achieve specified rotational velocity with controlled axis.

Velocity is estimated based on current position as measured by position sensor. This requirement does not specify any requirements for the sensed value.

Goal velocity is specified in *radians per second*. The system should handle velocity within configured software limits and native limits given by the hardware construction of the system.

## 2.4 Power control mode

System shall support direct setting of desired power being sent to the motor.

When the mode is active, any software limits for position, current, or velocity does not have to be respected.

Desired power is specified as an float value within -1..0..1 range, where -1 is reverse, 0 is no power, and 1 is full forward.

This mode is inherently unsafe and is recommended only for advanced use.

## 2.5 Movement detection

System has to have capability to detect whenever output axis is stationary or moving.

This detection shall use position sensor. The sensitivity of the mechanism shall be configurable via standard means.

## 2.6 Static friction compensation

When the servo is considered as not moving (more in 2.5), the system shall provide static friction compensation for any mechanism affected by it's effects.

As of now only velocity control mode and position control mode are considered as affected.

This compensation shall provide a short-term increase in power to the motor to overcame the static friction, this compensation shall disappear once the motor is moving.

The transition shall be gradual, to avoid hysteresis.

The mechanism shall be parametrized, and configurable via standard means.

## 2.7 Disengaged

TBD
